# Flutter

is an app development framework created by Google. It is relatively young; its version 1.0 was released in December 2018; but it's already in use for major mobile apps like Google Pay and eBay Motors. It's a cross-platform framework; you can make apps using Flutter and compile them to run on Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS, and apparently Google Fuschia, which is an operating system that I had never heard of. You can also compile for web browsers and put your app online; in my experience, Flutter web apps are a little slow and clunky because they exist in their own little world kind of like Flash games did, but it's still pretty convenient; like, you can put a demo version of your app online really easily, and then tell people that if they like it they should download the real version.

And I personally appreciate Flutter because it lets you create moden user interfaces without using the standard web languages of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. In large part, I suspect, because web technologies are consistently portable to different platforms, most user interfaces today are created using those and then adapted into apps, a lot of the time just by taking a web browser and customizing it to not look like one. Like, even when you have Discord as an app on your computer, guess what, it's just a web page in disguise, you can see the HTML. It's the same for WhatsApp and Microsoft Teams and VSCode and a bunch of other apps.

HTML, CSS, and JavaScript have taken over the field of graphical user interfaces, which results in apps that are slow, because JavaScript is a slow language, and hard to program, because HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are old languages full of inexplicaple syntax for historical reasons that need lots of frameworks and libraries to try to make them modern and useable. Our subjects today will be the programming language called Dart and the user interface library written in it called Flutter, which offer a fully modern cross-platform alternative. (Whereas with web development, you will kind of need to augment your HTML/CSS/JavaScript with stuff like jQuery, React, Vue, Angular, Tailwind CSS, etc, etc.) So that's why you would learn to use this stuff. Let's start with some basics of the Dart programming language.
